Q1. How to check if git is available on your system.

Ans:- Open your terminal (Command Prompt, PowerShell, or any other terminal/command-line interface).

   Type the following command:

                                - git --version

Q2. How to initialize a new Git repository?

Ans:- By using following setps:-
1. Open Your Terminal:
Use your system's terminal or command-line interface (e.g., Command Prompt on Windows, Terminal on macOS, or a shell on Linux).
2. Navigate to Your Project Directory:
Use the cd command to navigate to the directory where you want to create the Git repository:

                                                                                             - cd /path/to/your/project

Q3. How to tell git about your name and email ?

Ans:- Open your terminal.

Set your name:
git config --global user.name "Your Name"
Replace "Your Name" with the name you want to associate with your commits.

Set your email:

git config --global user.email "youremail@example.com"

Q4. How to add a file to the staging area ?

Ans:- Open Your Terminal:
Use the terminal or command-line interface (CLI) of your operating system.
2. Navigate to Your Repository:
Use the cd command to navigate to the directory containing your Git repository:
bash.

cd /path/to/your/repository

3. Add a File to the Staging Area:
Use the git add command followed by the file name to add a specific file to the staging area:


Q5.How to remove a file from the staging area ?

Ans:-  Open Your Terminal:
Use your terminal or command-line interface (CLI) of your operating system.
2. Navigate to Your Repository:
Use the cd command to navigate to the directory containing your Git repository:

cd /path/to/your/repository

3. Remove a File from the Staging Area:
Using git restore (Preferred):

If you’re using Git 2.23 or later, you can use:


Q6.How to make a commit ?

Ans :- By using this we can able to commit :-
          
             cd /path/to/your/repository

Q7.How to send your changes to a remote repository ?

Ans :- By using this, we can able to do so :- 
            cd /path/to/your/repository
git add .
git commit -m "Add new feature"
git push origin main


Q8.What is the difference between clone and pull ?

Ans :- git clone:
Purpose: git clone is used to create a copy of an existing Git repository from a remote source onto your local machine.

Use Case: You use git clone when you want to start working with a repository that you don't already have on your local system.

git pull:
Purpose: git pull is used to fetch and merge changes from a remote repository into your current local branch.

Use Case: You use git pull when you already have a cloned repository on your local machine and want to update it with the latest changes from the remote repository.
